# Cladonia
Should eventually be a vaguely ok chess engine. 

Cladonia makes an effort to be as extensible as possible by implementing functionality polymorphically (even when it's definitely unnecessary to do so) and dividing up the code into compact modules. It will contain at least one game module and an engine module. Game modules consist of (1) an "abstracts" module following a "no magic types" principle that describes the rules of the game at the trait level (movegen, legality checking, end-of-game detection) and (2) at least one "implementations" module that implements those traits (probably overriding functions for performance reasons) for particular types. I haven't written the engine module yet, but the plan is for it to contain search code that again remains as agnostic as possible as to which gamestate types and evaluators it's dealing with while allowing optimizations when those inputs carry additional structure or instructions (such as the functionality needed to implement AB search, quiescence search, transposition tables, endgame tablebases, opening books, et cetera). Eventually game modules may also contain game-specific protocol information such as the UCI specification. 

This is probably not the best way to make a game engine, but it is the kind of puzzle I enjoy solving and it should allow me to do some pretty experimental things (look forward to some really weird representations of positions' values, new bad ideas with "killer move" vibes, and more)!

Feedback is welcome! Check out the engine programming discord. 

Regarding the name of the engine: see Cladonia rangiformis in particular. The complicated branching brings to mind a tree search, and species of the Cladonia genus in particular often exhibit multiple growth patterns simultaneously. That fits nicely with Cladonia's goals of eventually becoming vaguely ok at game tree searches and of simultaneously supporting different implementations of various parts of the engine. I also liked that it wasn't a particularly pretentious name- lichens are small, quiet, and often overlooked, but nevertheless hold a lot of interesting detail if you're willing to look closely. 
